SARISWIFT POS - OFFLINE DOCKER GUIDE
===================================

This version runs on your own Windows computer using Docker.
After the first installation, Wi-Fi or internet is not required.


WHAT YOU NEED
-------------

1. Windows 10 or Windows 11, 64-bit
2. Docker Desktop
3. Node.js 20 LTS
4. At least 8 GB RAM is recommended
5. Internet only for the FIRST setup, because Docker and npm must download files


IMPORTANT
---------

- Do not run this system directly from inside the ZIP.
- Extract the complete SariSwift-Offline folder first.
- Do not delete Docker's SariSwift volumes; they contain your local data.
- Do not use "npx supabase db reset" after entering real sales. It erases and
  rebuilds the local database.
- Do not expose ports 54321-54329 to the public internet. This local stack is
  designed for use on your own computer or trusted private network.


FIRST-TIME SETUP
----------------

1. Install Docker Desktop:
   https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/

2. Install Node.js 20 LTS:
   https://nodejs.org/

3. Restart your computer after installing them.

4. Open Docker Desktop and wait until it says Docker is running.

5. Extract this ZIP to a normal folder, for example:
   C:\SariSwift-Offline

6. Open the extracted folder.

7. Open PowerShell in this folder and run, in order:

    npm install
    npx supabase start

   Keep your internet connected during the first run. The download may take
   several minutes.

8. Create the file .env.local in this folder. Read the two values with:

    npx supabase status -o env

   Then write them into .env.local exactly like this:

    VITE_SUPABASE_URL=<the API_URL value>
    VITE_SUPABASE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=<the PUBLISHABLE_KEY value>

   Save it as UTF-8 without BOM. These values do not change for a local
   stack, so this is a one-time step.

9. Start the website:

    npm run dev

   Then open http://localhost:8080. Leave this terminal open while using
   the POS.

10. Public account creation is disabled in the local Supabase configuration.
    Managers and Cashiers are created by the Admin inside the app, under
    Staff. There is no sign-up page, by design.

11. Sign in with the Admin account issued for this installation.

    The Admin email and password are handed over separately and are
    deliberately not written down in this folder. If the password is lost,
    use "Forgot password?" on the sign-in page, then open the local inbox
    at http://localhost:54324 to read the reset link.


EVERYDAY OFFLINE USE
--------------------

1. Open Docker Desktop.
2. Wait until Docker is running.
3. Open PowerShell in this folder and run:

    npx supabase start
    npm run dev

4. Keep Docker Desktop and the terminal open.
5. Use the POS at http://localhost:8080.

Wi-Fi can be disconnected after the first setup is complete.


HOW TO STOP
-----------

1. Finish the current transaction.
2. Press Ctrl+C in the terminal running "npm run dev".
3. In the same folder, run:

    npx supabase stop

4. You may close Docker Desktop afterward.

The database is preserved and will be available the next time you start.
Never add --no-backup to that command: it deletes the data volumes.


HOW TO CREATE A BACKUP
----------------------

1. Make sure Docker and the local database are running.
2. Open PowerShell in this folder and run:

    npx supabase db dump --local --data-only --file backups/backup.sql

   Rename the file with today's date so older backups are not overwritten.
3. Open the "backups" folder.
4. Copy the newest .sql file to a USB drive or another safe location.

The SQL backup contains database records. Uploaded product and QR images remain
inside Docker storage, so do not delete Docker's SariSwift volumes.


ACCOUNT AND ROLE MANAGEMENT
---------------------------

- SariSwift uses exactly three active roles: Admin, Manager, and Cashier.
- Existing store owners are migrated safely to Admin membership.
- Admin creates Manager and Cashier accounts from Staff Management.
- Do not create users or edit role rows manually in Supabase Studio.
- The legacy owner enum value remains unused only for database compatibility.


CATEGORY MANAGEMENT
-------------------

- Admin and Manager can open Categories from the navigation.
- Product Add and Edit use a searchable category dropdown.
- Cashier can filter POS products by active category but cannot modify them.
- Archived categories stay attached to existing products and cannot be chosen
  for new assignments.
- General always remains active and cannot be deleted.
- Manager can reassign products. Only Admin can permanently delete a
  non-General category, with atomic reassignment when the category is in use.
- The local demo seed adds General, Beverages, Coffee, Noodles, Snacks,
  Personal Care, Household, Canned Goods, and Fresh Goods without wiping data.


SELECTIVE CATEGORY REASSIGNMENT
-------------------------------

Moving products no longer means moving all of them.

1. Open Categories and press "Reassign" on a category that has products.
2. Choose the replacement category.
3. Search the products in that category if the list is long.
4. Tick the products you want to move. "Select All" ticks everything currently
   shown; "Clear Selection" unticks everything.
5. Check the selected count and the destination shown under the list.
6. Press "Move N products".

Only the ticked products move. The rest stay where they are. Categories,
counts, POS, and Inventory update by themselves - do not press F5.

The database checks all of this again, so a modified browser cannot bypass it:
active Admin or Manager of that store only (Cashier is rejected), both
categories must belong to the store, every selected product must still be in
the source category, an empty selection is refused, and the move plus its audit
entry happen together or not at all.


PAYMENT REFERENCE RULES
-----------------------

Cash sales do not use a reference and are not affected.

    GCash          numbers only, 6 to 32 characters
    Maya           numbers only, 6 to 32 characters
    Bank transfer  letters, numbers, spaces and hyphens, 6 to 64 characters

The reference box blocks characters the chosen method does not allow, stops at
the maximum length, shows a live counter, and explains exactly what is wrong.
Spaces at the start and end are removed before the sale is sent.

PostgreSQL checks the same rules during checkout, so the rules apply even if
the browser is modified. References saved before this change are left exactly
as they are.

If a checkout fails, pressing Confirm Sale again is safe. As long as the cart,
method, reference and cash amount are unchanged, the same sale is retried and
cannot be recorded twice.


STAFF PASSWORDS
---------------

- Both "Create Staff" and "Reset Temporary Password" have an eye button to show
  or hide the password.
- Passwords are hidden by default and are cleared when the dialog closes.
- A password is never saved in the browser, never put in a link, and never
  written into the audit log.
- The audit log records only that an Admin reset a password, and only after the
  password change actually succeeded.


READING THE AUDIT LOG
---------------------

    Sale completed              A checkout finished.
    Stock deducted by sale      Stock went down because of that sale.
    Stock added by restock      Purchased inventory was received.
    Stock adjusted manually     A person changed stock by hand.

A normal sale is no longer shown as a manual stock adjustment. Older entries
keep their original wording; nothing historical is rewritten.


PRODUCT COST, CAPITAL, COGS, AND PROFIT
---------------------------------------

- Buying price means the current cost of one product unit.
- Selling price means the amount charged to the customer for one unit.
- Inventory capital is current stock multiplied by current unit cost.
- Restock records the purchase quantity and purchase unit cost, then calculates
  a weighted-average unit cost atomically.
- COGS is quantity sold multiplied by the trusted unit-cost snapshot.
- Gross profit is net sales minus COGS.
- Net profit is gross profit minus supported store-paid deductions.
- Customer change is not revenue.
- Configured checkout fees are currently paid by the customer and are not
  deducted from profit twice.
- Old transactions retain an estimated historical cost reconstructed from
  their previously stored selling price and profit. New transactions store
  trusted cost snapshots during checkout.
- Admin and Manager can view costs, capital, movements, COGS, and profit.
- Cashiers cannot query or view those cost-bearing fields.
- Inventory capital is not a cash wallet. Selling inventory moves its cost from
  inventory capital into COGS; it does not deduct a manual capital balance.
- Refunds and voids are not implemented in this phase.

DATABASE MIGRATIONS
-------------------

Migrations only move forward. An applied migration is never edited. A fix is
always a new file with a later date in its name.

ALL MIGRATIONS ARE APPLIED, up to and including:

    supabase/migrations/20260801010000_payment_reference_and_audit_clarity.sql

Nothing is pending. You can confirm this any time with:

    npx supabase migration list --local

The two newest ones added:
    20260801000000  the "move only the selected products" function, with all
                    of its role, store, category and selection checks.
    20260801010000  payment-reference checking inside the database at checkout,
                    and audit entries that say whether stock changed because of
                    a sale, a restock, or a manual adjustment.

WHEN A FUTURE MIGRATION ARRIVES:

1. Close the POS browser tabs.
2. Make a backup (see HOW TO CREATE A BACKUP) and copy the "backups" folder
   to a USB drive.
3. Start the system: npx supabase start, then npm run dev.
4. Open PowerShell in this project folder and run:

    npx supabase migration list --local
    npx supabase migration up --local

5. Regenerate the database types. IMPORTANT: use the command below exactly.
   Using ">" instead writes the wrong text encoding and breaks the file.

    npx supabase gen types typescript --local |
      Out-File -Encoding utf8 src/integrations/supabase/types.ts

6. Close and restart SariSwift, then sign in again.

Do not run "npx supabase db reset". Do not delete backups. Do not delete
Docker containers or volumes.


LOCAL ADDRESSES
---------------

POS website:       http://localhost:8080
Supabase Studio:   http://localhost:54323
Supabase API:      http://127.0.0.1:54321
Local email inbox: http://localhost:54324


TROUBLESHOOTING
---------------

"Docker is not running"
Open Docker Desktop and wait until it is completely ready.

"Port is already in use"
Close other development programs using ports 8080 or 54321-54329. Then run
npx supabase stop followed by npx supabase start.

"npx or npm is not recognized"
Install Node.js 20 LTS and restart Windows.

"The page cannot be reached"
Keep the website terminal open. Try http://127.0.0.1:8080.

"Staff service is unavailable" / 503 on Staff Management
The Edge Functions container is not running. Docker creates it WITHOUT an
automatic restart policy, so a Docker Desktop restart, a Windows update, or
waking the computer from sleep leaves it stopped while every other container
comes back. Nothing is wrong with your data. Run:

    npx supabase start

To confirm it is running:

    docker ps --filter name=edge_runtime

To stop it happening again on this computer, give the container a restart
policy once:

    docker update --restart unless-stopped supabase_edge_runtime_sariswift-offline

"Local Supabase is not configured"
.env.local is missing or empty. Run npx supabase start, then rebuild the file
from npx supabase status -o env as shown in step 8 of the setup.

"Unexpected character in .env.local"
The file was saved with the wrong text encoding. Delete it and write it again
as UTF-8 without BOM. In PowerShell:

    npx supabase status -o env | Select-String "^(API_URL|PUBLISHABLE_KEY)="

"The first setup fails without internet"
Reconnect temporarily. The first setup must download npm packages and Docker
images. After it completes successfully, normal use can be offline.

"I forgot my password"
Open http://localhost:54324 after requesting a password reset. This is the
local email inbox provided by Supabase.

"A page shows a red error box instead of a list"
That is deliberate. A connection, permission, or database problem is never
shown as an empty list or zero sales, because that would look like a quiet day.
Press "Try again". If it keeps failing, check Docker Desktop is running.

"A GCash reference must be 6-32 digits"
The reference does not match the rule for the payment method you picked. See
PAYMENT REFERENCE RULES above.

"Only 3 of the 5 selected products are still in this category"
Someone moved, archived, or deleted one of the ticked products while the window
was open. Nothing was moved. Close the window, let the list refresh, try again.

"Stock changed while I had the edit window open"
Normal - it usually means a sale went through. The window shows the live stock.
Saving it only changes name, category, image and prices; it never writes stock.
Use Restock or Adjust Stock for stock changes.

"The types file looks like strange symbols"
It was saved in the wrong encoding. Regenerate it using the Out-File command in
DATABASE MIGRATIONS above.


ROLE AND SECURITY NOTES
-----------------------

- Admin: everything for the assigned store, including Staff and Audit Logs.
- Manager: inventory, categories, transactions, reports, profit, and
  operational audit records.
- Cashier: POS and their own transactions only. Cashiers never receive buying
  prices, costs, COGS, gross profit, or net profit from the database.
- Permissions are enforced by the database (Row Level Security and security
  definer functions), not just by hiding buttons.
- Every checkout, restock, adjustment, and category move records who did it.
- The service-role key never reaches the browser. Staff creation and password
  resets run in local Edge Functions.
- Reprinted receipts always name the person who originally processed the sale.
  An Admin or Manager reprinting a Cashier's sale is never shown as the
  cashier. Missing attribution shows "Legacy/Unknown".
- Stock can only be changed through Restock and Adjust Stock. A database
  trigger blocks direct stock edits, including from the product edit window.


SAFE PACKAGING
--------------

When zipping this folder to give to someone else, leave out:

    node_modules        (reinstalled automatically)
    dist                (rebuilt automatically)
    .env.local          (rebuilt from npx supabase status -o env)
    supabase/.temp      (Supabase CLI working files)
    backups             (contains your real business data)
    any *.sql dump, log, or temporary file

Always keep supabase/migrations - those files are part of the program.

This system does not deploy anywhere and does not send data to any website.


DATA SAFETY
-----------

- Make a backup regularly, and always before applying a migration.
- Keep copies on a USB drive.
- Never delete the backups folder or old backup files.
- Never uninstall Docker or delete Docker volumes without making a backup.
- Never run "npx supabase db reset" on a database containing real transactions.
